So tariffs, who pays for them? The
exporter, the importer, or the end
consumer?
>> Everyone pays.
[Music]
>> Hey everyone, welcome back to another
episode of WSJ's Take on the Week. I'm
Telus Demos.
>> And I'm Gjen Bannery. So tell us, I
still can't stop thinking about that
oracle move.
>> It was bonkers, right? cuz we're talking
about an already very big company and
the stock went up
>> around 40%.
>> Around 40%.
>> That's a meme stock level move, right?
Like big technology stocks aren't known
for moves like that.
>> But meme stocks are like, you know,
subbillion dollar market cap like this
trades for 50 cents and now to a$150.
Like we're not talking like, you know,
blue chip gold star established
companies making moves like that,
>> right? This is a company that's now one
of the 10 biggest companies in the US by
market cap, which is just wild. And
basically, they had this earnings report
that really wowed investors. And to me,
there were a few big takeaways. One, the
AI trade is so not over. I feel like a
few weeks ago, everyone was freaking
out. Has this thing become a bubble? Are
are these gains in stock like in stocks
like Nvidia and the tech behemoths, are
they overdone? And I think this showed
us that people are still wowed by AI and
and big tech right now. And two, it
feels like some of these crazy hundred
billion, $200 billion moves in stocks
like Nvidia, Meta, Oracle have kind of
become more common, right, for these big
tech stocks to trade like crazy. Well, I
want to talk about what drove the stock
a little bit though, but it seemed like
what what moved the stock was that they
announced essentially a future revenue
projection that was multiples of what
Wall Street was expecting. And that is
being driven in part by things like
they've signing a long-term deal with
Open AI to provide them with computing
services to power AI years into the
future. a couple of things that that our
colleagues um on the street Dan
Gallagher and Asa Fitch wrote. Number
one is that uh it's one thing to have
contracts in place and another to
believe you will be able to collect on
them years down the line. So while this
is about revenue, right? This isn't you
know uh traders hallucinating on behalf
of an AI hallucination. This is like
okay they they they're talking about
revenues but it is not like money in the
bank yet. It it still suggests that
there is there is something speculative
about this trade, right? It's not like
dollars being made today. To me, that
makes it still feel I don't want to say
bubbly, but but optimistic.
>> It's just like it's hard not to be like,
"Huh, is this are we getting ahead of
ourselves?" And I think you saw a lot of
people getting ahead of themselves in
trading after that earnings report. I
mean, we've talked a lot about call
options trading, right? These are
leveraged bets on where the stock is
going to go within just a few days. And
I saw people turning to like some of the
most bullish trades out there. But just
just to you know play devil's advocate a
little bit. I think there is a lot of
money in the bank in terms of the tech
trade.
>> I think this shows us how
>> like people have been so worried about
concentration in the market right among
these big technology stocks. But these
are the stocks that keep delivering for
investors. You know, I was looking at a
Deutsche Bank stat and said that since
late 2023, big tech has contributed
nearly 90% of all earnings growth since
then. So,
>> people are really relying on these
stocks.
>> Well, and to your point about
concentration, the fact that it's Oracle
making this move and not one of the mag
seven, there's a broadening happening,
right? Like if you look at the leaders
of the S&P 500 this year, you see a
bunch of tech companies, but here are
their names. And these are, you know,
for for those of us with a gray hair or
two, like the these names have been
around for a while, right? Seagate,
Western Digital. I mean, those are like
spinning disc hardware companies, right?
Oracle is up there in the top five. And
then, you know, a couple of the others
are something we've talked about on the
show before, energy companies, right?
The the energy to power AI, you got GE
Vernova and NRG. So there is a
broadening happening in that regard,
right? But I do take your point about
how something about the way people trade
these days using a lot of derivatives
and other things to magnify market
moves. I mean that still is I think this
says both right that there that there's
a real economic shift here happening
towards the you know kind of future AI
economy but also that the market is in a
place where things like that happen just
because of the way people are just you
know pedal to the metal in the way they
trade these days.
>> Yeah. just feels really momentum driven
and again I think the big takeaway is
that this AI trade is just not over yet
though maybe in the coming week I think
people will be paying a little bit more
attention to the Fed.
>> Yeah I mean you know I know the Fed
sounds prosaic compared to AI but also
of course everything going on with the
Fed is pretty wild these days. Obviously
you have the sort of political cloud
around it you know having to do with you
know the president seeking to oust one
of the Fed governors. We'll see how that
plays out. Um but but even just like the
actual like daytoday work with the Fed
is is really tricky right now. And it
goes back to the classic tension between
their dual mandate, right? Keeping
prices steady and also pushing the
economy toward full employment.
>> Right now it looks like the jobs market
is certainly weakening, right? This is
not the hot jobs market of the pandemic
or post-pandemic dates.
>> Yes, you had obviously the soft labor
report from a couple weeks ago. You had
another revision report this past week
that revised down jobs kind of a lot of
it was even before Trump was in office.
But anyway, the headlines of the labor
data are all pointing kind of in the
wrong direction right now. However, you
know, inflation hasn't gone away. Uh the
consumer price index report this past
week was it was not hotter than
expected, but it did continue to go up.
So, it was at 2.9% year-over-year for
the headline, 3.1% year-over-year for
the core. That was like in the
neighborhood of where economists were
expecting it, but it's still ticking
upwards. And we know that the Fed, the
expectation is the Fed will cut in
September. Whether it's 25 basis points
or 50, a quarter point or a half point,
we'll see. But I want to point out a
couple of things. One was there was a
really interesting story um about in the
journal about lumber prices kind of
flashing a warning sign, right?
Companies not um you know, expecting to
be building as much. You talked to Neil
Duta, you know, a couple weeks ago about
the housing market in a recession,
>> and you know, I I asked him, can the
housing market be in a recession without
the rest of the economy falling into a
recession? He said, not really. That's
very unlikely. But what's happening in
the lumber market, I think, is so so
important and have and can have such a
ripple effect, right? Like,
>> if you think about it, if there's less
demand for lumber, that means
potentially less demand for homes,
right? What happens when people don't
want to build homes? That construction
worker might not be getting a job. What
happens when he or she doesn't get a
job? They might have less spending money
for that dinner out on Friday night,
which can really weigh on our economy.
So, I think that one metric just has
insane ripple effects across the entire
economy.
>> I tend to agree. And if you look a
little deeper into the inflation data,
you saw that the producer price index
was slowing in its most recent report.
And so you have, you know, producers not
being able to push through, wholesalers
not being able to push push through
price increases maybe means that they
see weakening demand. And so really, I
think the focus is now on
the the business side of the economy,
right? What is going on with companies
amidst,
you know, tariffs being the main driver,
but but you know, other other things
happening in the economy. And the vital
question that remains as as we debate,
you know, inflation versus jobs is will
tariff related price increases be
something of a one-off and that the Fed
should really turn its attention to kind
of promoting growth in the rest of the
economy to to to prop up the the job
market. So, in order to to look a little
deeper into this question of like what
what are companies thinking about right
now when it comes to their business
passing on prices to consumers, how able
to do that are they? We decided to talk
to somebody who's a little closer to the
front lines of, you know, working with
importers and exporters and sort of
helping them work through this and
figure out how to adjust their
businesses around what's going on with
with with tariffs. And that's Ediniro
Cesari. He is the head of trade finance
and working capital at Croup which is uh
a big global bank that obviously plays a
large role in the financing of the
movement of goods across borders. It's a
really interesting conversation and
we're going to have it right after the
break.
[Music]
Welcome back. We are joined now by Adiro
Cesari who is the head of trade and
working capital solutions at Croup which
really as a bank is one of the global
leaders in kind of the business of trade
finance. So we're getting kind of an
interesting perspective here on what's
going on with trade and tariffs and all
those sorts of things. Adairo, welcome.
>> Thanks for having me. A pleasure to be
here. So, here we are more than five
months out from Liberation Day when
President Trump first laid out the
reciprocal tariff regime, which really
was kind of the first of its kind and
marked a very dramatic change in in how
the US has has typically, you know,
thought about tariffs and and and trade
for, you know, the way it's been done
for many years. Um and yet five months
out we don't really have much more
certainty about what exactly the tariff
regime will be because some of it was
thrown into question by US courts uh
which have said that President Trump
can't do some of the things he wants to
do. Now the Supreme Court will weigh in,
but how would you say your business and
your clients are dealing with that
degree of uncertainty for something that
really I imagine represents a sea change
in how people do business in trade and
trade finance. I would say that the
first reaction was kind of a a stop and
and I would say that most of
>> you mean the first you mean back in
February when this first
>> back in February
>> there was a first initial reaction of
accelerating purchase. So you saw
>> the data shows a lot of acceleration in
accumulation of inventory. there was
deals made to to source critical
equipments uh for AI farmers and things
like that which was happened right just
before the first startups went in
>> and then I would say there is yet a wait
and see mode for the most strategic
decisions right so big factory buildups
or big rehifts on who purchase or not
>> because there is yet this deals to be
made temporary deals which are still
being being being done. But the good
thing is that I think the the
expectation or the the noise in the
market has reduced because uh I think
people realize that the levels of
tariffs are going to be much more
sustainable than it could be.
>> Okay.
>> And
>> meaning that that at times people were
thinking the tariffs might be north of
100% on on some things and it looks like
they're not going to be
>> exactly
>> close to that
>> which were not sustainable. Right. So
that will could cause
>> and and with the deals being being made
I think that shows uh um sustainability
like a lot of the supply chains were
making we're seeing we're seeing clients
taking of course taking focusing a lot
of on efficiency
>> okay
>> so clients have factory here and factory
there and just by re rerouting some
goods from one side of the other they
have
>> less impact on tariffs of course they
are doing that
>> okay
>> clients which is easy to replace
suppliers because of the nature of the
goods.
>> They are doing that right.
>> Yeah.
>> And and since co that is there was a
natural uh trend in diversification of
the supply chain.
>> Okay. So so we had a trial run
essentially right. I would say if we are
in this situation without the evolution
since co I think people will be much
more concerned but uh the China plus one
strategy has been on the table for a
meaningful time and people have really
did good progress on on that but the
concept of near shoring and the concept
of really changing the micro supply
chain it it's a long and costly process
right and even more in specific
industries where there is technology and
knowledge to be created to to enable
those.
>> And real quick, it's a term that gets
thrown out there, but China plus one,
what what does that refer to?
>> It refers to the strategy of intently
diversify your supply chain exclusively
from a concentration in China, right?
So, clients really looking for keeping
China but expanding to alternative
sources of uh supply chain. Well, I want
to focus on something you you you said
before, which is efficiency. And that's
a a really big idea because when we talk
about like who pays for tariffs, we
always talk about it in very explicit
terms, right? Okay, there's the
exporter. They pay it at the border.
There's then the importer who, you know,
maybe the exporter sort of pushes it out
to, well, you're going to pay for this
by paying more for this thing. And then
there's the end consumer where maybe the
importer says, "Okay, well, we're just
going to charge you consumer more for
this thing which has moved, you know,
uh, across the border." But efficiency
is a way for nobody to really pay for it
explicitly, but for it to be paid for by
changing how you make something, where
you get it, how you finance it. So tell
us more about what what does that mean
for your clients? like what what what
are trade clients of city doing in
efficiency terms that mean that
essentially nobody explicitly pays for
the tariff but it's paid for in other
ways.
>> Yeah, I would say that with exception of
very few companies which have a very
simple business model of just repassing
goods. All our clients are very focused
on minimize the impact to the end
consumer and with that they go to all
the partners right they go to the
suppliers and they push to renegotiate
agreements and they go to their partners
on the logistics sides and so on and
they go to the banks right and they look
we need we need to reassess this or I'm
thinking about uh building this or I'm
thinking about changing the supply chain
from here to there how can we make is
more efficient and that has been a lot
of what we have been doing which is
benchmarking supply chains from one side
to the other and helping our clients to
thinking about how you leverage
financial instruments to enable the
supply chain be more efficient on on
that one and that will drive efficient.
So, so my my read my base case is that
uh um a good amount of the the tariff
impact will not be reaching the the the
end consumer.
>> So I mean we've seen one indicator
recently I would say the jobs report
that hiring has slowed in the United
States. Do you feel like that's that's
that's a path to efficiency for for for
some clients?
>> 100%. I think really people looking at
activities which can be automated and
can be done by by machines by agent
agent agentic AI clearly
>> clearly is a it's a pete efficient for
every industry
>> and what about the process of reshoring
like people basically saying you know
what I'm not going to import this
anymore I'm going to make this here or
I'm going to find a domestic supplier of
this are you seeing that in your
business because that's obviously the
hope of a lot of these policies right is
that it drives domestic investment.
>> Yeah. And most of those case those are
multi-year investments and several
several billion dollars, right?
Depending on the industry.
>> So, so I think yes, the answer is we're
starting to see more and more of that as
those deals start to be perceived as
more
serene, right? More permanent uh than
than a negotiation.
>> So, you are seeing those conversations
happening. we are seeing is starting it
more now than a couple months ago I
would say.
>> Interesting. So I guess the question
that investors really want to kind of
zero in on is who pays the tariff right
is that the right way to ask that
question do you think or is it more
complicated than that?
>> I think it varies a lot uh by industry.
All our clients are really focusing on
preserving or minimizing the the price
transference. Uh on that not all client
has the same footprint in terms
footprint in terms of supply chain
>> and uh and everyone is living on it's
not just tariffs right. So to your point
it's it's the consumption consumption
power uh globally and there is
competition. So it's not an easy uh
conversation. When you look our clients,
everyone of course is assessing pricing
strategy. They're processing
uh some phaser pricing conversations,
>> some market tests, some um selective
pricing on on products which has less
competition and so on. But there is a
a lot of awareness and concern about uh
pricing increase impacting
the the the amount of say the the the
wholesalers.
>> People don't want to have to raise their
prices to their end customer right. The
pattern we've seen with inflation data
I'd love your perspective on which is
that you know the the consumer price
index has gone up a little bit when you
look at it kind of year-over-year.
What's risen faster in some recent
readings has been the producer price
index, the wholesale prices, right? So,
it seems like consumers are not
necessarily being charged more overall,
right? It's, you know, there's a lot of
different mixes in there, but producers
are So, some people have looked at that
and said, well, that that's a sign that
that it's the producers, right? The
wholesalers, right? Like, I'm paying
more for the stuff that I buy to make
the thing that I sell to you
>> and I'm just going to absorb that and
not pass it on to you. Do you think that
that is the pattern that will continue
to to play out is is to see producers
paying more and just sort of eating it
or like you said finding other
efficiencies.
>> There is some temporary effect on that
the supply chain there is increases in
cost today in the supply chain. People
are looking to find productivity ways to
reduce their cost but uh on the end of
the day uh there is so much they can
absorb without impacting their
shareholder value. So there is going to
be some price transference.
>> Um so and there is yet some of those
tariffs negotiation going on. So I would
say that while there is tariff
negotiation going on, people really
holding and taking some losses I would
say to to preserve their pricing
strategy uh for for for some time.
>> You guys as a bank see a lot of
transactions. What what are you seeing
in terms of payment flows or other
things that sort of help lay out this
this this kind of picture to you of you
know producers are kind of bearing some
of the costs, consumers aren't
necessarily feeling it in the prices.
What are you seeing in those in those
payment flows?
>> It's it's very difficult to get from
those payment flows dating in relation
to the consumer pricing and what we are
seeing is
some of re shifting flows.
>> Okay.
>> Right. We're seeing when we look at
analyze and data we're seeing uh places
like uh Vietnam, Indonesia, India
becomes like new manufacturing hubs.
Apple famously of course has has for
many years worked on shifting its
production to India for example from
China right
>> I think several clients in terms of uh
pharmaceutical and telecommunication
that leveraging
>> India in that sense and you see a lot of
Chinese companies building those
manufacturers there right so it's a mix
of before I think this
age of uh of tariffs was like a China
plus one strategy now I think there is
China plus one and there is this
regional manufacturing planters which
are are all intent to to really build
diversification and alternatives in
terms of uh of not only tariff regimes
but uh geopolitical
um events which uh I think has been part
of the agenda together with this uh this
tariff regime. And so as this goes on,
one question that that raises for me is
if interest rates come down,
>> um does that make it sort of cheaper to
to make some of these changes or is it
not that sensitive to interest rates the
kind of the trade finance business?
>> It does. I would say that um um interest
rates going down will incentivize
uh suppliers to draw facilitates and
really the conversation around tenor
concessions pricing concessions on end
goods on end goods are impacted by their
cost of capital or the cost of financing
um and and we see the difference in
interest rates across the globe. it does
impact the the the US suppliers.
>> So, is that something that would would
lower interest rates help your business?
Like, do you think that that would make
make these these transitions,
you know, h happened faster?
>> I would say that it would generate
incentives for for for more solutions
and for for um some of those win-win
situations to to close, right? as if
they are not get on the mathematics
today in the cost of capital or the cost
of access to finance it is an element of
that calculation and interest rates
going down is going to enable
>> more trade activity which naturally
generates more activity in my business.
So would would lowering interest rates
actually maybe lessen the price impact
of tariffs on consumers do you think
because then companies could could pay
for some of these adjustments.
>> It it does right it's not not a direct
one to one but uh it is it is part of
the the component right you look at uh
>> the cost of uh uh any company cost of
that is it's a relevant cost.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it it it helps paint a
picture of the totality of economic
policy, maybe. Um, all right. Well,
we're going to take a quick break and
when we come back, one last question for
Ediniro Sari of Croup.
>> All right, welcome back. We've got one
last question for Edinro Castari of
Croup. So, tariffs, who pays for them?
The exporter, the importer, or the end
consumer?
Everyone pays.
>> Everyone pays. How so?
>> Companies are sharing the pain and
really pushing their partners and and
their banks and everyone to to bring
efficiency and productivity or support
in these times to reduce the impact on
the the consumer.
>> I didn't think global trade was simple
uh and and talking to you about it has
has confirmed that. Um, but it is uh
obviously a hot topic and we've all
become we've all had to learn a lot more
about it recently. So, it's great to
hear from somebody who's been living and
breathing it for a long time. Edinro,
thanks so much for joining us.
>> No, thank you. This is our bread and
butter every day. Try to help our
clients navigate this this volatility in
the market. So, very happy to be here.
[Music]
So tell us, I still can't stop thinking
about that Oracle move.
>> I mean, it was wild, right? Like I don't
Everybody forgive me, I don't remember
the number exactly, but it was a what 30
40% move in an already very large
company, right?
>> Right.
>> All right.
>> Excellent point.
[Music]